syllabus.md, before:

# Syllabus

## Course description

Introduces students to both the practice of web design and the basic principles of computer science. The practice component covers not only web design but also current graphics and software tools. The principles section includes an overview of hardware and software, the history of computers, and a discussion of the impact of computers and the Internet.

## Tentative lecture topics

- Computer principles
- Unix command line
- HTML
- CSS
- HTML & CSS frameworks
- Design and wireframing
- Responsive web design
- Animation
- Digital image editing
- Digital audio and video
- Javascript programming for designers
- Web hosting and domain names

## Grading

You will receive a grade calculated mechanically on the following rubric.

- Assignments: 35%
- Quizzes: 15%
- Midterm Exam: 25%
- Final Exam: 25%

## Textbook

[Learning Web Design: A Beginner’s Guide to HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Web Graphics](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920051626.do), 5th Edition<br />
Jennifer Robbins<br />
ISBN: 978-1-491-96020-2<br />

## Getting help

Help resources available to you are listed in order of “seriousness” of your problem:

### FAQ

Students are expected to consult the [[University Student Etiquette Frequently Asked Questions|Student FAQ]] prior to asking questions of the tutors, professor, or other students. This allows us to focus our time on questions of greater significance.

### Messaging

Our course uses Slack as its main communication channel for announcements and discussion. This is a good place to ask questions that anyone - other students, graders, tutors, or the professor - can answer.

Create a private channel in Slack named `assgn_fb1258`, where `fb1258` is replaced with your own NYU Net ID. Invite the graders to that channel (we will tell you how to do this).

You are not required to supply any personally-identifiable information when signing up for slack. Discuss with the professor if you have concerns or questions about privacy.

### Tutoring

Tutors for this course are waiting to answer your questions remotely using Zoom meeting software.

Tutoring hours (all times in Eastern Time):

- TBD

### Additional tutoring resources

Academic support is also available through the [University Learning Center](http://www.nyu.edu/ulc).

### Talk with the professor

- see me before class
- raise your hand or simply speak during class
- see me after class
- come to my [open office hours](https://knowledge.kitchen/Amos_Bloomberg#Contact_Info)

## i6 account

In addition to your NYU Home Account, we will be using a special computer account on a Unix Web server named i6.cims.nyu.edu which will be assigned to you automatically based on your enrollment. This is called an [i6 account](http://cims.nyu.edu/webapps/content/systems/resources/i6) and we will use it to host our websites.

- Common questions about i6 accounts are answered on [this FAQ page](https://cims.nyu.edu/webapps/content/systems/resources/i6/faq).
- If you forget your i6 password and would like to reset it, go to [this page](https://cims.nyu.edu/webapps/content/systems/resources/i6/resetpassword) for instructions on how to do so.
- If you do not receive notification that an account has been created for you, check your spam, and try to reset your password using the link above.

## Required software and hardware

Macintosh computers with all of the necessary software installed are available to you in the [ITS labs](http://www.nyu.edu/its/labs/). You do not need your own computer nor do you need to purchase any software. However, you will be learning how to use various programs and may wish to have access to them at home or on your laptop. In this case, you must purchase your own license or use a trial version, which is sometimes available from the publisher. You can download software provided by ITS to all students, including SFTP programs, by going to the [ITS software page](https://www.nyu.edu/its/software/).

## Using the computer labs

The main computer lab to use for this class is the [LaGuardia Co-op](http://www.nyu.edu/life/information-technology/locations-and-facilities/student-technology-centers/laguardia-co-op.html), located at 541 LaGuardia Place. There are [other labs](http://www.nyu.edu/its/labs/) on campus, but this is also where tutors will be available to meet with you.

### Saving your work in the lab

You will be able to save your work in the ITS labs under your NYU Home Account and/or on your own flash drives. Although you can write to the hard disks of the machines in the labs, you cannot be sure that you will have access to the same machine the next time you enter the lab and the drives in the lab are frequently erased. A good option is to [[Transfer files to the i6 web server|upload your files online]] and download them as needed.

## Assignments

### Submitting

All assignments will be submitted by pushing code to GitHub.

- we will cover how to push code to GitHub
- unless you have good reason to do otherwise, follow best-practices for all [[Basic_computer_concepts#File_names|basic file names and file extensions]]

### Late penalty

- assignments are due _before_ class on the due date indicated on the schedule
- for every 24 hours that an assignment is late, we will apply a 10% penalty on the grade, up to a maximum penalty of 30%.
- after 72 hours, we will no longer accept the assignment.

### Extensions

- You are automatically granted 2 late assignment extensions of up to 3 days late each, with the exception that all assignments must be submitted before the last day of regular classes before the final exam
- When submitting an assignment for which you would like to use one of these automatic extensions, you must notify the grader that you are using the extension, otherwise your assignment will be rejected.
- _Do not ask for any extensions from the professor_

### Regrades

- If a student requests a regrade of an assignment or exam, we will regrade the work in full, not just the part that the student believes has been mis-graded.

Commit message:

attempt at full jekyll github pages

syllabus.md, after:

---
layout: github
title: Syllabus
permalink: /syllabus
---

# Syllabus

## Course description

Introduces students to both the practice of web design and the basic principles of computer science. The practice component covers not only web design but also current graphics and software tools. The principles section includes an overview of hardware and software, the history of computers, and a discussion of the impact of computers and the Internet.

## Tentative lecture topics

- Computer principles
- Unix command line
- HTML
- CSS
- HTML & CSS frameworks
- Design and wireframing
- Responsive web design
- Animation
- Digital image editing
- Digital audio and video
- Javascript programming for designers
- Web hosting and domain names

## Grading

You will receive a grade calculated mechanically on the following rubric.

- Assignments: 35%
- Quizzes: 15%
- Midterm Exam: 25%
- Final Exam: 25%

## Textbook

[Learning Web Design: A Beginner’s Guide to HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Web Graphics](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920051626.do), 5th Edition<br />
Jennifer Robbins<br />
ISBN: 978-1-491-96020-2<br />

## Getting help

Help resources available to you are listed in order of “seriousness” of your problem:

### FAQ

Students are expected to consult the [Student FAQ](https://knowledge.kitchen/University_Student_Etiquette_Frequently_Asked_Questions) prior to asking questions of the tutors, professor, or other students. This allows us to focus our time on questions of greater significance.

### Messaging

Our course uses Slack as its main communication channel for announcements and discussion. This is a good place to ask questions that anyone - other students, graders, tutors, or the professor - can answer.

Create a private channel in Slack named `assgn_fb1258`, where `fb1258` is replaced with your own NYU Net ID. Invite the graders to that channel (we will tell you how to do this).

You are not required to supply any personally-identifiable information when signing up for slack. Discuss with the professor if you have concerns or questions about privacy.

### Tutoring

Tutors for this course are waiting to answer your questions remotely using Zoom meeting software.

Tutoring hours (all times in Eastern Time):

- TBD

### Additional tutoring resources

Academic support is also available through the [University Learning Center](http://www.nyu.edu/ulc).

### Talk with the professor

- see me before class
- raise your hand or simply speak during class
- see me after class
- come to my [open office hours](https://knowledge.kitchen/Amos_Bloomberg#Contact_Info)

## i6 account

In addition to your NYU Home Account, we will be using a special computer account on a Unix Web server named i6.cims.nyu.edu which will be assigned to you automatically based on your enrollment. This is called an [i6 account](http://cims.nyu.edu/webapps/content/systems/resources/i6) and we will use it to host our websites.

- Common questions about i6 accounts are answered on [this FAQ page](https://cims.nyu.edu/webapps/content/systems/resources/i6/faq).
- If you forget your i6 password and would like to reset it, go to [this page](https://cims.nyu.edu/webapps/content/systems/resources/i6/resetpassword) for instructions on how to do so.
- If you do not receive notification that an account has been created for you, check your spam, and try to reset your password using the link above.

## Required software and hardware

Macintosh computers with all of the necessary software installed are available to you in the [ITS labs](http://www.nyu.edu/its/labs/). You do not need your own computer nor do you need to purchase any software. However, you will be learning how to use various programs and may wish to have access to them at home or on your laptop. In this case, you must purchase your own license or use a trial version, which is sometimes available from the publisher. You can download software provided by ITS to all students, including SFTP programs, by going to the [ITS software page](https://www.nyu.edu/its/software/).

## Using the computer labs

The main computer lab to use for this class is the [LaGuardia Co-op](http://www.nyu.edu/life/information-technology/locations-and-facilities/student-technology-centers/laguardia-co-op.html), located at 541 LaGuardia Place. There are [other labs](http://www.nyu.edu/its/labs/) on campus, but this is also where tutors will be available to meet with you.

### Saving your work in the lab

You will be able to save your work in the ITS labs under your NYU Home Account and/or on your own flash drives. Although you can write to the hard disks of the machines in the labs, you cannot be sure that you will have access to the same machine the next time you enter the lab and the drives in the lab are frequently erased. A good option is to [upload your files online](https://knowledge.kitchen/Transfer_files_to_the_i6_web_server) and download them as needed.

## Assignments

### Submitting

All assignments will be submitted by pushing code to GitHub.

- we will cover how to push code to GitHub
- unless you have good reason to do otherwise, follow best-practices for all [basic file names and file extensions](https://knowledge.kitchen/Basic_computer_concepts#File_names)

### Late penalty

- assignments are due _before_ class on the due date indicated on the schedule
- for every 24 hours that an assignment is late, we will apply a 10% penalty on the grade, up to a maximum penalty of 30%.
- after 72 hours, we will no longer accept the assignment.

### Extensions

- You are automatically granted 2 late assignment extensions of up to 3 days late each, with the exception that all assignments must be submitted before the last day of regular classes before the final exam
- When submitting an assignment for which you would like to use one of these automatic extensions, you must notify the grader that you are using the extension, otherwise your assignment will be rejected.
- _Do not ask for any extensions from the professor_

### Regrades

- If a student requests a regrade of an assignment or exam, we will regrade the work in full, not just the part that the student believes has been mis-graded.
